Nico blog secure access to eks (#914)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-10-08-secure-access-to-aws-eks.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins"
author: nicolas-triballier
by: advocate
communities: [devops]

> description: "Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters with Okta."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This tutorial is a step-by-step guide for admins on how to implement secure access to AWS EKS Clusters with Okta."
```
adding more description on type of article

tags: [aws, eks, devops, oidc, kubectl]
tweets:
- "TweetStuff!"
image: blog/secure-access-to-eks/2.png
type: conversion
---
 
{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/1.gif alt:"UX kubectl with Okta" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

In this tutorial, we will leverage [OpenID Connect](https://www.okta.com/openid-connect/) (OIDC) to allow our DevOps team to securely access their EKS clusters on AWS. We use  [Role Based Access Control (RBAC) ](https://www.okta.com/identity-101/what-is-role-based-access-control-rbac/)] to enforce least privilege without the need to configure AWS IAM roles. :sunglasses:

We'll highlight the steps to manually enable an OIDC provider on your EKS clusters. At the end of this tutorial, we'll point to resources you can leverage to automate all those steps.

Below is the target architecture you'll be deploying:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/2.png alt:"Okta + EKS Architecture" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Who This Quick-Start Guide Is For

> This tutorial will show you how to leverage OIDC to securely access Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters. It's intended for AWS DevOps and Identity Security administrator teams, Anyone with an interest in Identity Security best practices can learn from this guide, but it assumes at least some knowledge of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is intended to show AWS DevOps and Identity Security administrator teams how to securely access securely access Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters.  Anyone with an interest in Identity Security best practices can learn from this guide, but it assumes at least some knowledge of:
```
paring it down, since it's kind of a repeat of line 27

Author: Manually Added

-   k8s, API Server, RBAC Authorization, role binding
-   AWS Console, EKS, AWS CloudShell

> -   Terminal on a end-user workstation (e.g. MacOS, Windows, Linux)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Terminal on a end-user workstation (e.g. macOS, Windows, Linux)
```
brand spelling

Author: Manually Added

### What is AWS EKS?

Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a managed container service to run and scale Kubernetes applications in the cloud or on-premises. See  [https://aws.amazon.com/eks/](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/). 

To deploy k8s clusters on your own infrastructure, you can use EKS Anywhere. See  [https://aws.amazon.com/eks/eks-anywhere/](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/eks-anywhere/)

## Okta + EKS: how do they work together?

Let's take an EKS cluster deployed in AWS. We'll perform the following steps:

-   add Okta as an OIDC provider to the EKS cluster
-   configure the k8s API server so it prompts the user for Authentication (AuthN)
-   configure RBAC Authorization (AuthZ), mapping Okta groups with given k8s roles
-   leverage an OIDC plugin that 1) prompts the user for AuthN in the web browser and 2) retrieves the [JSON Web Token  (JWT)](/blog/2020/12/21/beginners-guide-to-jwt) id_token from Okta and passes it to our [kubectl (Kubernetes command-line tool)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) commands
    

Ready? Let's get started!

## Configuration

Let's first deploy a brand new EKS cluster. We'll do it manually from the AWS Console.

> Note: We recommend configuring [access to the AWS Console using Okta SSO+MFA](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/okta-idp.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: We recommend configuring [access to the AWS Console using Okta SSO+MFA](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/okta-idp.html).
```
punctuation

Author: Manually Added

    -   For **Controlled access** select **Allow everyone in your organization to access**

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/23.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - App Configuration" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Then **Save**.
-   In the **General** tab, be sure to select **Use PKCE**. Then copy the client id, we'll need it later:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/24.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - App Configuration - General Tab" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    
-   Now let's create an Authorization Server. Go to the sidebar menu, select **Security > API**. Then go to **Authorizations Server** tab and select**Add Authorization Server**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/25.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Add Authorization Server" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Enter the following settings:

    - **Name: EKS**
    - **Audience:  [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/)**  
-   Click on **Save**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/26.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server Configuration" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> On the next screen, copy the **Issuer URL** from the Settings tab. We'll need it later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the next screen, copy the **Issuer URL** from the **Settings** tab. We'll need it later:
```
bolding

Author: Manually Added

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/27.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server Settings Tab" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Now let's add a custom claim "groups" in the id_token that Okta will generate, to list the groups of the connected user.

> -   Go to the **Claims** tab and select**Add Claim**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Go to the **Claims** tab and select **Add Claim**.
```
space

Author: Manually Added

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Secure Access to AWS EKS Clusters for Admins"
author: nicolas-triballier

> by: advocate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by: internal-contributor
```

communities: [devops]
description: "This tutorial is a step-by-step guide for admins on how to implement secure access to AWS EKS Clusters with Okta."
tags: [aws, eks, devops, oidc, kubectl]
tweets:

> - "TweetStuff!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"This tutorial shows how to use #OIDC with #Okta to securely access EKS clusters on AWS #kubernetes #k8s #devops" #EKS 
```
tweet

Author: Had to remove hashtag because it causes front matter validation to fail

image: blog/secure-access-to-eks/2.png
type: conversion
---
 
{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/1.gif alt:"UX kubectl with Okta" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> In this tutorial, we will leverage [OpenID Connect](https://www.okta.com/openid-connect/) (OIDC) to allow our DevOps team to securely access their EKS clusters on AWS. We use  [Role Based Access Control (RBAC) ](https://www.okta.com/identity-101/what-is-role-based-access-control-rbac/)] to enforce least privilege without the need to configure AWS IAM roles. 😎

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will leverage [OpenID Connect](https://www.okta.com/openid-connect/) (OIDC) to allow our DevOps team to securely access their EKS clusters on AWS. We use  [Role Based Access Control (RBAC)](https://www.okta.com/identity-101/what-is-role-based-access-control-rbac/)] to enforce the least privilege required without the need to configure AWS IAM roles. 😎
```
removed extra space

Reviewer 2: IMO this makes it clearer

We'll highlight the steps to manually enable an OIDC provider on your EKS clusters. At the end of this tutorial, we'll point to resources you can leverage to automate all those steps.

Below is the target architecture you'll be deploying:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/2.png alt:"Okta + EKS Architecture" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Who This Quick-Start Guide Is For

> This tutorial is intended to show AWS DevOps and Identity Security administrator teams how to securely access securely access Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters.  Anyone with an interest in Identity Security best practices can learn from this guide, but it assumes at least some knowledge of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial is intended to show AWS DevOps and Identity Security administrator teams how to securely access Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters. Anyone with an interest in Identity Security best practices can learn from this guide, but it assumes at least some knowledge of:
```

> -   k8s, API Server, RBAC Authorization, role binding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Kubernetes (k8s),  k8s API Server, k8s RBAC Authorization, and k8s role binding
```

-   AWS Console, EKS, AWS CloudShell
-   Terminal on a end-user workstation (e.g. macOS, Windows, Linux)
    
## What You'll Need to Get Started 

The prerequisites to complete this tutorial are:
-   The tutorial assumes that you're already using Okta as your identity and authorization solution. However, if you don't have an existing Okta tenant, you can [create a new one here](https://www.okta.com/free-trial/) and follow along.   
    -   One or more Okta administrative user(s)
    -   One or more Okta test user(s)        
    -   Okta administrator rights       
-   Workstation(s) running a supported version of macOS, Windows, or Linux 
    -   Installation permissions  
    -   SSH terminal application  
    -   HTTPS web browser (recommended)
        
### What is Okta?

> Okta, Inc. is an identity and access management company, providing cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication into applications, and for developers to build identity controls into applications, website web services, and devices. You get scalable authentication built right into your application without the development overhead, security risks, and maintenance that come from building it yourself.

Reviewer 2: shouldn't it be "websites, web services"
```suggestion
Okta, Inc. is an identity and access management company, providing cloud software that helps companies manage and secure user authentication into applications, and for developers to build identity controls into applications, websites, web services, and devices. You get scalable authentication built right into your application without the development overhead, security risks, and maintenance that come from building it yourself.
```

### What is Kubernetes?

> Kubernetes, also known by the abbreviation k8s, is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. See  [https://kubernetes.io/](https://kubernetes.io/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes, also known by the abbreviation k8s, is an open-source container orchestration platform for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. See  [https://kubernetes.io/](https://kubernetes.io/). 
```

### What is AWS EKS?

Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a managed container service to run and scale Kubernetes applications in the cloud or on-premises. See  [https://aws.amazon.com/eks/](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/). 

To deploy k8s clusters on your own infrastructure, you can use EKS Anywhere. See  [https://aws.amazon.com/eks/eks-anywhere/](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/eks-anywhere/)

## Okta + EKS: How Do They Work Together?

Let's take an EKS cluster deployed in AWS. We'll perform the following steps:

-   add Okta as an OIDC provider to the EKS cluster
-   configure the k8s API server so it prompts the user for Authentication (AuthN)
-   configure RBAC Authorization (AuthZ), mapping Okta groups with given k8s roles

> -   leverage an OIDC plugin that 1) prompts the user for AuthN in the web browser and 2) retrieves the [JSON Web Token  (JWT)](/blog/2020/12/21/beginners-guide-to-jwt) id_token from Okta and passes it to our [kubectl (Kubernetes command-line tool)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   leverage an OIDC plugin that 1) prompts the user for AuthN in the web browser and 2) retrieves the [JSON Web Token  (JWT)](/blog/2020/12/21/beginners-guide-to-jwt) `id_token` from Okta and passes it to our [kubectl (Kubernetes command-line tool)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) commands
```

- Select trusted entity = **AWS service**, and click on the **EKS** service

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/4.png alt:"AWS Create Role - Select Service" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    
- Click on use case = **EKS - Cluster**, then **Next: Permission**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/5.png alt:"AWS Create Role - Select Use Case" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- Verify that **AmazonEKSClusterPolicy** is included in the attached permissions policies. Click on **Next: Tags**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/6.png alt:"AWS Create Role - Attach Permission Policies" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- Click on **Next: Review**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/7.png alt:"AWS Create Role - Add Tags" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- Enter **EKSCluster** as **Role name**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/8.png alt:"AWS EKSCluster Role Creation" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Once your role is created, go back to the list of roles and open EKSCluster to double-check it's properly configured:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/9.png alt:"AWS EKSCluster Role View" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> ### Create a new EKS cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a New EKS Cluster
```
title case for heading

Let's create a brand new EKS cluster.

- Go to EKS

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/10.png alt:"AWS Console EKS Service" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Click on **Clusters > Add cluster > Create**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/11.png alt:"EKS - List Of Clusters" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- Enter a name: **eks-cluster**. Select the **Cluster Service Role** created in the previous section EKSCluster. Then click on **Next**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/12.png alt:"EKS Cluster - Configure Cluster" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- On the next **Networking** screen, keep the default options and click on **Next**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/13.png alt:"EKS Cluster - Specify networking" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- On the Logging screen, keep the default options and click on **Next**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/14.png alt:"EKS Cluster - Configure logging" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   On the **Review and create** screen, click on **Create**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/15.png alt:"EKS Cluster - Review and create" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Your EKS cluster will take a couple of minutes to start. In the meantime, let's do the configuration on the Okta side.Then we'll come back to the AWS Console to configure Okta as the OIDC provider for the EKS cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your EKS cluster will take a couple of minutes to start. In the meantime, let's do the configuration on the Okta side. Then we'll come back to the AWS Console to configure Okta as the OIDC provider for the EKS cluster.
```

### Configure Your Okta Org

> In the Okta admin console, we'll create a group of users that we'll assign to a OIDC client, and we'll configure the AuthZ Server to inject the list of groups into the id_token.

Reviewer 2: can we link the admin console URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Okta admin console, we'll create a group of users that we'll assign to a OIDC client, and we'll configure the AuthZ Server to inject the list of groups into the `id_token`.
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/18.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Assign People To Group" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

-   Search for your user and click on the **+**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/19.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Assign People To Group" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    
You should see that your user is now assigned to the eks-admins group:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/20.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Assigned User" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Now we'll create a new OIDC client. We'll leverage the [AuthCode + PKCE grant type](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-grant-type/authcodepkce/main/#grant-type-flow) since the terminal to access EKS clusters will be running on the laptops of DevOps team members, and like any native app, it can't host any secrets.

-  While still in your Okta admin console, go to the sidebar menu and select **Applications** > **Applications**. On the **Applications** screen select **Create App Integration**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/21.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Add Application" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    

> -  Select **Sign-in method OIDC - OpenID Connect**", **Application type Native Application**, then click Next:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Select **Sign-in method OIDC - OpenID Connect**, **Application type Native Application**, then click Next:
```
removed extra quotation mark

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/22.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - New OIDC Native App" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    
- Enter the following settings:
    
    -  **App integration name: EKS**
    -   **Grant type: Authorization Code** only
    -  Set the **Sign-in redirect URIs** to [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/)  (Eventually, we'll run the kubectl commands from our laptop.) 
    -   For **Controlled access** select **Allow everyone in your organization to access**

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/23.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - App Configuration" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Then **Save**.

> -   In the **General** tab, be sure to select **Use PKCE**. Then copy the client id, we'll need it later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   In the **General** tab, be sure to select **Use PKCE**. Then copy the **Client ID**, we'll need it later:
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/24.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - App Configuration - General Tab" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    
-   Now let's create an Authorization Server. Go to the sidebar menu, select **Security > API**. Then go to **Authorization Servers** tab and select **Add Authorization Server**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/25.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Add Authorization Server" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

-   Enter the following settings:

    - **Name: EKS**
    - **Audience:  [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000/)**  

-   Click on **Save**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/26.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server Configuration" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

- On the next screen, copy the **Issuer URL** from the **Settings** tab. We'll need it later:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/27.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server Settings Tab" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

> Now let's add a custom claim "groups" in the id_token that Okta will generate, to list the groups of the connected user.

Reviewer 2: should the word `id_token` be formatted using code or something? it appears many times

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's add a custom claim "groups" in the `id_token` that Okta will generate, to list the groups of the connected user.
```

-   Go to the **Claims** tab and select **Add Claim**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/28.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - Claims Tab" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    

> - Use the following settings to add the groups claim in the id_token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the following settings to add the groups claim in the `id_token`:
```
code formatting

    - **Name: groups**
    - **Include in token type: ID Token - Always**
    - **Value type: Groups**.
    - **Filter: Starts with eks-** (This means we'll only list the connected user's groups whose names start with "eks-")
    - **Include in: Any scope**

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/29.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - New Groups Claim" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
        

> - Now let's create an access policy on this AuthZ Server to drive when the AuthZ Server should mint the id_token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Now let's create an access policy on this AuthZ Server to drive when the AuthZ Server should mint the `id_token`.
```
code formatting

- Enter the following Policy settings:

    - **Policy name: EKS**
    - **Description: EKS**
    - **Assign to: The following clients**
    - **Clients: EKS** (Look for the OIDC client you created earlier.)

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/31.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - Add Policy" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
        
- Once you **Create Policy**, add a rule. Click on **Add Rule**:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/32.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - Add Rule On Policy" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

- Enter the following Rule settings:

    - **Rule Name: AuthCode + PKCE**
    - **Grant type is: Authorization Code**
    - **User is: Any user assigned the app**
    - **Scopes requested: Any scopes**   
- Then click on **Create Rule**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/33.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - Rule Configuration" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    
You should see this view:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/34.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Authorization Server - List Of Rules On A Policy" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Now let's run a test to see what our id_token will look like when the Okta AuthZ Server mints it.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's run a test to see what our `id_token` will look like when the Okta AuthZ Server mints it.  
```
code formatting

- Go to the **Token Preview** tab and enter the following **Request Properties**:
    - **OAuth/OIDC client: EKS**
    - **Grant type: Authorization Code**
    - **User: your user**
    - Under **Scopes**, enter **openid, email, profile, offline_access**
        

> - Then click on **Token Preview**. On the right side of the screen, you'll  see a preview of your id_token. So far it has all the claims we're looking for, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Then click on **Token Preview**. On the right side of the screen, you'll  see a preview of your `id_token`. So far it has all the claims we're looking for, including:
```

    name: cluster-admin
subjects:
- kind: Group
    name: eks-admins
```
-   enter  **CTRL-O**  to save the file  
-   then  **CTRL-X**  to close the file   
-   Create the cluster role binding from the yaml file
    
```sh
kubectl create -f oidc-cluster-admin-by-group.yaml
```
        
- Apply the cluster role binding:
    
```sh
kubectl apply -f oidc-cluster-admin-by-group.yaml
```
        
-   Edit the local kubeconfig file and add the OIDC config
    
```sh
nano $HOME/.kube/config
```
        
-   Insert the part in red below:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/46.png alt:"Kubeconfig - OIDC Provider Config" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    
Below is the text to include:
```
- name: oidc      
    user:
    exec:
        apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1
        args:
        - oidc-login
        - get-token
        - --oidc-issuer-url=https://nico.okta.com/oauth2/auscierlvzfBoWkKC2p7
        - --oidc-client-id=0oacieu408ExEjXwu2p7
        - --oidc-extra-scope=email
        - --oidc-extra-scope=offline_access
        - --oidc-extra-scope=profile
        - --oidc-extra-scope=openid
        - --oidc-extra-scope=groups
        command: kubectl
```

> This basically specifies the config of the OIDC provider. Note: Replace the `oidc-issuer-url` and `oidc-client-id` with your own values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This basically specifies the config of the OIDC provider. Note: Replace the `oidc-issuer-url` and `oidc-client-id` with Issuer URL and Client ID we copied earlier.
```

Once you're done editing the file:

- enter  **CTRL-O**  to save the file. 
- then enter  **CTRL-X**  to close the file.
    
At this point the EKS cluster is properly configured to use Okta as an OIDC provider.

From CloudShell, we can retrieve the list of pods in our cluster with our current assumed role. 

```sh
kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/47.png alt:"Kubectl Get Pods" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    
Let's now look into how we can run a similar command from the terminal on our local machine.

There are two things we need to configure:

- Export the `kubeconfig` file and import it to your laptop. 
    

> - Configure a kubectl OIDC plugin to prompt the user for AuthN and request an id_token. We'll use [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure a kubectl OIDC plugin to prompt the user for AuthN and request an `id_token`. We'll use [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin).
```

    
From your CloudShell, enter the command:

```sh
echo $HOME
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/48.png alt:"HOME Variable" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

The path to our kubeconfig file is `/home/cloudshell-user/.kube/config`, as shown above. 

- Let's download that file. Click on **Actions** at the top right of CloudShell, then click on **Download file**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/49.png alt:"Terminal - Download File" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

- Paste the path to your `kubeconfig` file and click on **Download**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/50.png alt:"Terminal - Path To Individual File" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
    
You should now have a copy of the config file in your Downloads folder.  

> - Install kubectl on your local machine. (See the [instructions to install kubectl on MacOS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install kubectl on your local machine. (See the [instructions to install kubectl on macOS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/)).
```

    
- Double-check that kubectl is properly installed.
    
```sh
kubectl version --client
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/51.png alt:"Kubectl Version" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
        
- On your Mac, replace the existing kubeconfig file with the one you downloaded from CloudShell:
    
    - Open your Finder on your Mac, then **CMD-SHIFT-G**.
    -   Enter **~/.kube/config** then click **Go**.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/52.png alt:"Path To Local Kubeconfig File" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
        

> - Delete any existing config files and add the one from CloudShell:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Rename any existing config files as a backup and add the one from CloudShell:
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/53.png alt:"Local Kubeconfig File" width:"400" %}{: .center-image }
    
- Open a terminal on your laptop and run:
    
```sh
kubectl config get-contexts
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/54.png alt:"Kubectl Get Contexts" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
        
-   If you don't see a "*" in front of the desired context, run:
    
```sh
kubectl config use-context arn:aws:eks:us-west-1:013353681016:cluster/eks-cluster
```
       

> - Double-check that the current context is properly set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may want to adjust the context name in the above command based on the context name in your own config file.

- Double-check that the current context is properly set.
```

    
```sh
kubectl config get-contexts
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/55.png alt:"Kubectl Get Contexts" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
        

> - Install [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin)  (the OIDC helper for kubectl)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Install [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin)  (the OIDC helper for kubectl). Run this for mac/Linux:
```

    
```sh
brew install int128/kubelogin/kubelogin
```

- Now let's try to test the first part of the AuthN flow. Run the following command. (Be sure to replace the `oidc-issuer-url` and `oidc-client-id` with your own values.):
    
```sh
kubectl oidc-login setup --oidc-issuer-url=https://nico.okta.com/oauth2/auscierlvzfBoWkKC2p7 --oidc-client-id=0oacieu408ExEjXwu2p7
```      

You should be prompted to authenticate in your web browser against your Okta org.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/56.png alt:"Okta Login Page" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

- After authenticating, you should be redirected to localhost:8000 in your web browser, with an **OK** response.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/57.png alt:"Post Authentication" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

- You can close this tab.
    

> - Check your terminal. You should see a confirmation that you've received an id_token from Okta:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check your terminal. You should see a confirmation that you've received an `id_token` from Okta:
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/58.png alt:"Terminal - Post Authentication Notes" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    
- We're ready to make a final test. Run:
    
```sh
kubectl --user=oidc get pods --all-namespaces
```     

If you're not already Okta-authenticated you'll be prompted for AuthN. You should be able to see your list of pods:

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/59.png alt:"Terminal - Kubectl Get Pods" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Congratulations! You've successfully configured Okta as an OIDC provider to access your EKS cluster! 🎉

### Some Extra Checks

Let's double-check that our RBAC controls are working as expected. Currently we're a member of the eks-admins Okta group in the Universal Directory.

-  Let's remove ourselves from the eks-admins group in the Okta admin console.

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/60.png alt:"Okta Admin Console - Remove User From Group" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
    

> - Then, let's delete the cached id_token on our laptop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Then, let's delete the cached `id_token` on our laptop.
```

    
    - In your terminal, run:
        
```sh
cd ~/.kube/cache/oidc-login
```
            
   - List files in your cache folder.
        
```sh
ls
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/61.png alt:"Terminal - Content Of The cache/oidc-login Folder" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }
           

> - That first file contains the id_token Okta minted. Let's delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- That first file contains the `id_token` Okta minted. Let's delete it.
```

    
```sh
rm 8ead66f63afa81d7300257989c391d035f386b80758a2847c99d37ecdd5610e0
```
        
- Double-check that your cache folder is empty.
    
```sh
ls
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/62.png alt:"Terminal - Content Of The cache/oidc-login Folder" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
        
- Ok, now let's try again to retrieve the list of pods. 
    
```sh
kubectl --user=oidc get pods --all-namespaces
```

{% img blog/secure-access-to-eks/63.png alt:"Terminal - Kubectl Get Pods" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }
        

> As expected, we're not authorized. Since we're no longer a member of the eks-admins Okta group, the group is no longer injected in the id_token, and the Kubernetes API Server no longer applies the cluster-admin role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As expected, we're not authorized. Since we're no longer a member of the eks-admins Okta group, the group is no longer injected in the `id_token`, and the Kubernetes API Server no longer applies the cluster-admin role.
```

> - Once again, let's delete the cached id_token in the `~/.kube/cache/oidc-login` folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once again, let's delete the cached `id_token` in the `~/.kube/cache/oidc-login` folder. 
```
